README.md, before:

# PiAlarmAdapter

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/actions/workflows/ci.yml) 
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter?branch=main) 
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b7e2b28d810c4ff8873175f5bc5db68d)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter.svg)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)



Application to manage contact sensors and send messages with state change to an MQTT Broker.

## Install
You can use pip directly through the command:
> pip install pi_alarm_adapter

## Settings

### Environment variables

| Variable             |  Default  | Info                                                           |
|----------------------|:---------:|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| **LOG_LEVEL**        |   INFO    | Level of logger. Valori possibili: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR |
| **MQTT_BROKER_URL**  | 127.0.0.1 | IP address of the MQTT broker                                  |
| **MQTT_BROKER_PORT** |   1883    | Port number of the MQTT Broker                                 |
| **MQTT_USERNAME**    |   admin   | Username that can post messages on queues                      |
| **MQTT_PASSWORD**    |   admin   | password of the user above                                               |

For sensor configuration, add environment variables in the format:
SENSOR_<NOME_SENSORE>=<PIN_NUMBER>

Example: **SENSOR_BEDROOM=4**


## ToDo List
- [ ] move configuration from environment variables to a yaml file

Commit message:

Managed the default level for the log

README.md, after:

# PiAlarmAdapter

[![CI Pipeline](https://github.com/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/actions/workflows/ci.yml) 
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter?branch=main) 
[![Codacy Badge](https://app.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b7e2b28d810c4ff8873175f5bc5db68d)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter/dashboard?utm_source=gh&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=&utm_campaign=Badge_grade)

![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/francescoscanferla/PiAlarmAdapter.svg)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)



Application to manage contact sensors and send messages with state change to an MQTT Broker.

## Install

### Prerequisite
E' necessario che sul raspberry siano installata la libreria **RPi.GPIO** o la **pigpio**

### From PIP
You can use pip directly through the command:
> pip install pi_alarm_adapter

## Settings

### Environment variables

| Variable             |  Default  | Info                                                                                          |
|----------------------|:---------:|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **LOG_LEVEL**        |   INFO    | Optional. Possible values: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR. If not specified, the default is INFO |


When running the application for the first time, you are prompted for the configurations that 
will later be saved in the .PiAlarmAdapter folder inside the user's home folder


## ToDo List
- [X] move configuration from environment variables to a yaml file
- Add support for NFC readers
